[PM-11873] Add Database Testing Instructions (#480)
bitwarden/contributing-docs: docs/contributing/testing/database/index.md

# Database Integration Testing

> Since Bitwarden has multiple database options (4), testing them all automatically is incredibly

Reviewer: 🎨 I'd leave "4" out of this, as it could potentially change and this would be an easy miss.

important so that we don't have to have a full QA process for each database type. This is where the

> `Infrastructure.IntegrationTest` project comes in, it allows setting up tests similarly to how the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Infrastructure.IntegrationTest` project comes in, allowing the setup of tests similarly to how the
```

> databases are consumed in the application. Through their common interface, generally an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
databases are consumed in the applications through their common interfaces, generally an
```

> `I*Repository`. These tests are automatically ran on all supported databases in our testing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`I*Repository`. These tests are automatically executed on all supported databases in our testing
```

pipeline.

## Creating a new test

> To create a new database test, just add the `[DatabaseTheory]` and `[DatabaseData]` attributes to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new database test just add the `[DatabaseTheory]` and `[DatabaseData]` attributes to
```

test. Now, in the parameters of the test you are able to "inject" any repository layer services
directly into the test. The test will run for every database that is
[configured in the current environment](#configure-the-tests). Since you inject the interface of the
service, some runs of the test will use the Dapper based repository implementation targeting
Microsoft SQL Server and others will use the Entity Framework Core based implementations, which we
use for MySql, Postgres, and SQLite.

The goal of database tests is to test the business logic that is encapsulated in a given method. If
the stored procedure in SQL Server then calls another procedure to update the

> `User.AccountRevisionDate` then the same EF implementation should do that as well. Then by running

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`User.AccountRevisionDate` then the same EF implementation should do that as well. By running
```

> the test against all variants, we are ensuring all the variants are feature equal. Locally, you may

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the test against all variants we are ensuring all the variants are feature-equal. Locally, you may
```

> want to only the SQL Server tests along with one EF implementation, SQLite is often the easiest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
want to only run the SQL Server tests along with one EF implementation; SQLite is often the easiest in that situation.
```

This may work well for a very long time and save you some time overall but there are differences
between the EF database providers such that you will one day get errors in the CI pipeline.

## Configure the databases

> The databases are expected to have the latest migrations applied to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The databases are expected to have the latest migrations applied.
```

## Configure the tests

The tests are configured through

> [.NET Configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration). In the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[.NET Configuration](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/extensions/configuration) in the
```

> order they are applied, user secrets, environment variables prefixed with `BW_TEST_`, and command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
order they are applied: user secrets, environment variables prefixed with `BW_TEST_`, and command
```

line args.

> ```C#

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```csharp
```

public class Root
{
    public Database[] Databases { get; set; }
}

public class Database
{
    public SupportedDatabaseProviders Type { get; set; }
    public string ConnectionString { get; set; } = default!;
    public bool UseEf { get; set; }
    public bool Enabled { get; set; } = true;
}
```

The `Type` property is an enum with the supported values being `SqlServer`, `MySql`, `Postgres`, or

> `Sqlite`. The `UseEf` property is only utilized it the `Type` is set to `SqlServer`, by default

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Sqlite`. The `UseEf` property is only utilized if the `Type` is set to `SqlServer`; by default
```

> `SqlServer` will be configured with the Dapper repositories but by setting `UseEf` to `true`, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SqlServer` will be configured with the Dapper repositories, however by setting `UseEf` to `true` it
```

will be configured with the Entity Framework Core repositories. `Enabled` allows you to easily

> disable one database but not delete the entry, it can be helpful if you are encountering a problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
disable one database but not delete the entry; it can be helpful if you are encountering a problem
```

with just a single database type and want to run the tests just for it instead of for all of them.

### Locally

To set the tests up locally you may want to add the configuration to your `dev/secrets.json` file.
An example entry you might add is:

```json
{
  ...other config...
  "databases": [
    {
      "type": "SqlServer",
      "connectionString": "myConnectionString"
    }
  ]
}
```

> You can also configure the tests just like the pipeline, read more below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also configure the tests just like the pipeline.
```

### Pipeline

The database tests have been pre-configured to run on all supported databases in the
[`test-database.yml`](https://github.com/bitwarden/server/blob/main/.github/workflows/test-database.yml)
([permalink](https://github.com/bitwarden/server/blob/f7bc5dfb2ea31ca7b4c36238295cdcc4008ad958/.github/workflows/test-database.yml))
file.

> The pipeline uses environment variables, an example entry you might add is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The pipeline uses environment variables. An example entry you might add is:
```
